README.md, before:

# Restructure Kafka connector output files

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/RADAR-base/Restructure-HDFS-topic.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/RADAR-base/Restructure-HDFS-topic)

Data streamed by a Kafka Connector will be converted to a RADAR-base oriented output directory, by organizing it by project, user and collection date.
It supports data written by [RADAR HDFS sink connector](https://github.com/RADAR-base/RADAR-HDFS-Sink-Connector) is streamed to files based on topic name only. This package transforms that output to a local directory structure as follows: `projectId/userId/topic/date_hour.csv`. The date and hour are extracted from the `time` field of each record, and is formatted in UTC time. This package is included in the [RADAR-Docker](https://github.com/RADAR-base/RADAR-Docker) repository, in the `dcompose/radar-cp-hadoop-stack/bin/hdfs-restructure` script.

## Upgrade instructions

When upgrading to version 1.0.0 from version 0.6.0 please follow the following instructions:

  - This package now relies on Redis for locking and offset management. Please install Redis or use
    the docker-compose.yml file to start it.
  - Write configuration file `restructure.yml` to match settings used with 0.6.0
    - HDFS settings have moved to `source`. Specify all name nodes in the `nameNodes`
      property. The `name` property is no longer used.

      ```yaml
      source:
        type: hdfs
        hdfs:
          nameNodes: [hdfs-namenode]
      ```
    - Add a `redis` block:

      ```yaml
      redis:
        uri: redis://localhost:6379
      ```
    - Offset accounting will automatically be migrated from a file-based storage to a Redis entry
      as radar-output processes the topic. Please do not remove the offsets directory until it is
      empty.
    - storage settings have moved to the `target` block. Using local output directory:

      ```yaml
      target:
        type: local
        local:
          # User ID to write data as
          userId: 123
          # Group ID to write data as
          groupId: 123
      ```

      With the `S3StorageDriver`, use the following configuration instead:
      ```yaml
      target:
        type: s3
        s3:
          endpoint: https://my-region.s3.aws.amazon.com  # or http://localhost:9000 for local minio
          accessToken: ABA...
          secretKey: CSD...
          bucket: myBucketName
      ```

When upgrading to version 0.6.0 from version 0.5.x or earlier, please follow the following instructions:
  - Write configuration file `restructure.yml` to match command-line settings used with 0.5.x.
  - If needed, move all entries of `offsets.csv` to their per-topic file in `offsets/<topic>.csv`. First go to the output directory, then run the `bin/migrate-offsets-to-0.6.0.sh` script.

## Docker usage

This package is available as docker image [`radarbase/radar-output-restructure`](https://hub.docker.com/r/radarbase/radar-output-restructure). The entrypoint of the image is the current application. So in all the commands listed in usage, replace `radar-output-restructure` with for example:
```shell
docker run --rm -t --network hadoop -v "$PWD/output:/output" radarbase/radar-output-restructure:1.0.0-hdfs -n hdfs-namenode -o /output /myTopic
```
if your docker cluster is running in the `hadoop` network and your output directory should be `./output`.

Docker image tags that are optimized for HDFS are suffixed with `-hdfs`. Otherwise, please use the image without that suffix.

## Command line usage

When the application is installed, it can be used as follows:

```shell
radar-output-restructure --nameservice <hdfs_node> --output-directory <output_folder> <input_path_1> [<input_path_2> ...]
```
or you can use the short form as well:
```shell
radar-output-restructure -n <hdfs_node> -o <output_folder> <input_path_1> [<input_path_2> ...]
```

To display the usage and all available options you can use the help option as follows:
```shell
radar-output-restructure --help
```
Note that the options preceded by the `*` in the above output are required to run the app. Also note that there can be multiple input paths from which to read the files. Eg - `/topicAndroidNew/topic1 /topicAndroidNew/topic2 ...`. Provide at least one input path.

Each argument, as well as much more, can be supplied in a config file. The default name of the config file is `restructure.yml`. Please refer to `restructure.yml` in the current directory for all available options. An alternative file can be specified with the `-F` flag.

### File Format

By default, this will output the data in CSV format. If JSON format is preferred, use the following instead:
```shell
radar-output-restructure --format json --nameservice <hdfs_node> --output-directory <output_folder>  <input_path_1> [<input_path_2> ...]
```

By default, files records are not deduplicated after writing. To enable this behaviour, specify the option `--deduplicate` or `-d`. This set to false by default because of an issue with Biovotion data. Please see - [issue #16](https://github.com/RADAR-base/Restructure-HDFS-topic/issues/16) before enabling it. Deduplication can also be enabled or disabled per topic using the config file. If lines should be deduplicated using a subset of fields, e.g. only `sourceId` and `time` define a unique record and only the last record with duplicate values should be kept, then specify `topics: <topicName>: deduplication: distinctFields: [key.sourceId, value.time]`.

### Compression

Another option is to output the data in compressed form. All files will get the `gz` suffix, and can be decompressed with a GZIP decoder. Note that for a very small number of records, this may actually increase the file size. Zip compression is also available.
```
radar-output-restructure --compression gzip  --nameservice <hdfs_node> --output-directory <output_folder> <input_path_1> [<input_path_2> ...]
```

### Redis

This package assumes a Redis service running. See the example `restructure.yml` for configuration options.

### Source and target

The `source` and `target` properties contain resource descriptions. The source can have two types, `hdfs` and `s3`:

```yaml
source:
  type: s3  # hdfs or s3
  s3:
    endpoint: http://localhost:9000  # using AWS S3 endpoint is also possible.
    bucket: radar
    accessToken: minioadmin
    secretKey: minioadmin
  # only actually needed if source type is hdfs
  hdfs:
    nameNodes: [hdfs-namenode-1, hdfs-namenode-2]
```

The target is similar, but it does not support HDFS, but the local file system (`local`) or `s3`.

```yaml
target:
  type: s3  # s3 or local
  s3:
    endpoint: http://localhost:9000
    bucket: out
    accessToken: minioadmin
    secretKey: minioadmin
  # only actually needed if target type is local
  local:
    userId: 1000  # write as regular user, use -1 to use current user (default).
    groupId: 100  # write as regular group, use -1 to use current user (default).
```

### Service

To run the output generator as a service that will regularly poll the HDFS directory, add the `--service` flag and optionally the `--interval` flag to adjust the polling interval or use the corresponding configuration file parameters.

## Local build

This package requires at least Java JDK 8. Build the distribution with

```shell
./gradlew build
```

and install the package into `/usr/local` with for example
```shell
sudo mkdir -p /usr/local
sudo tar -xzf build/distributions/radar-output-restructure-1.0.0.tar.gz -C /usr/local --strip-components=1
```

Now the `radar-output-restructure` command should be available.

### Extending the connector

To implement alternative storage paths, storage drivers or storage formats, put your custom JAR in
`$APP_DIR/lib/radar-output-plugins`. To load them, use the following options:

| Parameter                   | Base class                                          | Behaviour                                  | Default                   |
| --------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------ | ------------------------- |
| `paths: factory: ...`       | `org.radarbase.output.path.RecordPathFactory`         | Factory to create output path names with.  | ObservationKeyPathFactory |
| `format: factory: ...`      | `org.radarbase.output.format.FormatFactory`           | Factory for output formats.                | FormatFactory             |
| `compression: factory: ...` | `org.radarbase.output.compression.CompressionFactory` | Factory class to use for data compression. | CompressionFactory        |

The respective `<type>: properties: {}` configuration parameters can be used to provide custom configuration of the factory. This configuration will be passed to the `Plugin#init(Map<String, String>)` method.

Commit message:

Updated documentation and enable batch size for cleaner

README.md, after:

# Restructure Kafka connector output files

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/RADAR-base/Restructure-HDFS-topic.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/RADAR-base/Restructure-HDFS-topic)

Data streamed by a Kafka Connector will be converted to a RADAR-base oriented output directory, by organizing it by project, user and collection date.
It supports data written by [RADAR HDFS sink connector](https://github.com/RADAR-base/RADAR-HDFS-Sink-Connector) is streamed to files based on topic name only. This package transforms that output to a local directory structure as follows: `projectId/userId/topic/date_hour.csv`. The date and hour are extracted from the `time` field of each record, and is formatted in UTC time. This package is included in the [RADAR-Docker](https://github.com/RADAR-base/RADAR-Docker) repository, in the `dcompose/radar-cp-hadoop-stack/bin/hdfs-restructure` script.

## Upgrade instructions

When upgrading to version 1.0.0 from version 0.6.0 please follow the following instructions:

  - This package now relies on Redis for locking and offset management. Please install Redis or use
    the docker-compose.yml file to start it.
  - Write configuration file `restructure.yml` to match settings used with 0.6.0
    - HDFS settings have moved to `source`. Specify all name nodes in the `nameNodes`
      property. The `name` property is no longer used.

      ```yaml
      source:
        type: hdfs
        hdfs:
          nameNodes: [hdfs-namenode]
      ```
    - Add a `redis` block:

      ```yaml
      redis:
        uri: redis://localhost:6379
      ```
    - Offset accounting will automatically be migrated from a file-based storage to a Redis entry
      as radar-output processes the topic. Please do not remove the offsets directory until it is
      empty.
    - storage settings have moved to the `target` block. Using local output directory:

      ```yaml
      target:
        type: local
        local:
          # User ID to write data as
          userId: 123
          # Group ID to write data as
          groupId: 123
      ```

      With the `S3StorageDriver`, use the following configuration instead:
      ```yaml
      target:
        type: s3
        s3:
          endpoint: https://my-region.s3.aws.amazon.com  # or http://localhost:9000 for local minio
          accessToken: ABA...
          secretKey: CSD...
          bucket: myBucketName
      ```

When upgrading to version 0.6.0 from version 0.5.x or earlier, please follow the following instructions:
  - Write configuration file `restructure.yml` to match command-line settings used with 0.5.x.
  - If needed, move all entries of `offsets.csv` to their per-topic file in `offsets/<topic>.csv`. First go to the output directory, then run the `bin/migrate-offsets-to-0.6.0.sh` script.

## Docker usage

This package is available as docker image [`radarbase/radar-output-restructure`](https://hub.docker.com/r/radarbase/radar-output-restructure). The entrypoint of the image is the current application. So in all the commands listed in usage, replace `radar-output-restructure` with for example:
```shell
docker run --rm -t --network hadoop -v "$PWD/output:/output" radarbase/radar-output-restructure:1.0.0-hdfs -n hdfs-namenode -o /output /myTopic
```
if your docker cluster is running in the `hadoop` network and your output directory should be `./output`.

Docker image tags that are optimized for HDFS are suffixed with `-hdfs`. Otherwise, please use the image without that suffix.

## Command line usage

When the application is installed, it can be used as follows:

```shell
radar-output-restructure --nameservice <hdfs_node> --output-directory <output_folder> <input_path_1> [<input_path_2> ...]
```
or you can use the short form as well:
```shell
radar-output-restructure -n <hdfs_node> -o <output_folder> <input_path_1> [<input_path_2> ...]
```

To display the usage and all available options you can use the help option as follows:
```shell
radar-output-restructure --help
```
Note that the options preceded by the `*` in the above output are required to run the app. Also note that there can be multiple input paths from which to read the files. Eg - `/topicAndroidNew/topic1 /topicAndroidNew/topic2 ...`. Provide at least one input path.

Each argument, as well as much more, can be supplied in a config file. The default name of the config file is `restructure.yml`. Please refer to `restructure.yml` in the current directory for all available options. An alternative file can be specified with the `-F` flag.

### File Format

By default, this will output the data in CSV format. If JSON format is preferred, use the following instead:
```shell
radar-output-restructure --format json --nameservice <hdfs_node> --output-directory <output_folder>  <input_path_1> [<input_path_2> ...]
```

By default, files records are not deduplicated after writing. To enable this behaviour, specify the option `--deduplicate` or `-d`. This set to false by default because of an issue with Biovotion data. Please see - [issue #16](https://github.com/RADAR-base/Restructure-HDFS-topic/issues/16) before enabling it. Deduplication can also be enabled or disabled per topic using the config file. If lines should be deduplicated using a subset of fields, e.g. only `sourceId` and `time` define a unique record and only the last record with duplicate values should be kept, then specify `topics: <topicName>: deduplication: distinctFields: [key.sourceId, value.time]`.

### Compression

Another option is to output the data in compressed form. All files will get the `gz` suffix, and can be decompressed with a GZIP decoder. Note that for a very small number of records, this may actually increase the file size. Zip compression is also available.
```
radar-output-restructure --compression gzip  --nameservice <hdfs_node> --output-directory <output_folder> <input_path_1> [<input_path_2> ...]
```

### Redis

This package assumes a Redis service running. See the example `restructure.yml` for configuration options.

### Source and target

The `source` and `target` properties contain resource descriptions. The source can have two types, `hdfs` and `s3`:

```yaml
source:
  type: s3  # hdfs or s3
  s3:
    endpoint: http://localhost:9000  # using AWS S3 endpoint is also possible.
    bucket: radar
    accessToken: minioadmin
    secretKey: minioadmin
  # only actually needed if source type is hdfs
  hdfs:
    nameNodes: [hdfs-namenode-1, hdfs-namenode-2]
```

The target is similar, but it does not support HDFS, but the local file system (`local`) or `s3`.

```yaml
target:
  type: s3  # s3 or local
  s3:
    endpoint: http://localhost:9000
    bucket: out
    accessToken: minioadmin
    secretKey: minioadmin
  # only actually needed if target type is local
  local:
    userId: 1000  # write as regular user, use -1 to use current user (default).
    groupId: 100  # write as regular group, use -1 to use current user (default).
```

### Cleaner

Source files can be automatically be removed by a cleaner process. This checks whether the file has already been extracted and is older than a configured age. This feature is not enabled by default. It can be configured in the `cleaner` configuration section:

```yaml
cleaner:
  # Enable cleaning up old source files
  enable: true
  # Interval in seconds to clean data
  interval: 1260  # 21 minutes
  # Number of days after which a source file is considered old
  age: 7
```

The cleaner can also be enabled with the `--cleaner` command-line flag. To run the cleaner as a separate process from output restructuring, start a process that has configuration property `worker: enable: false` or command-line argument `--no-restructure`.

### Service

To run the output generator as a service that will regularly poll the HDFS directory, add the `--service` flag and optionally the `--interval` flag to adjust the polling interval or use the corresponding configuration file parameters.

## Local build

This package requires at least Java JDK 8. Build the distribution with

```shell
./gradlew build
```

and install the package into `/usr/local` with for example
```shell
sudo mkdir -p /usr/local
sudo tar -xzf build/distributions/radar-output-restructure-1.0.0.tar.gz -C /usr/local --strip-components=1
```

Now the `radar-output-restructure` command should be available.

### Extending the connector

To implement alternative storage paths, storage drivers or storage formats, put your custom JAR in
`$APP_DIR/lib/radar-output-plugins`. To load them, use the following options:

| Parameter                   | Base class                                          | Behaviour                                  | Default                   |
| --------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------ | ------------------------- |
| `paths: factory: ...`       | `org.radarbase.output.path.RecordPathFactory`         | Factory to create output path names with.  | ObservationKeyPathFactory |
| `format: factory: ...`      | `org.radarbase.output.format.FormatFactory`           | Factory for output formats.                | FormatFactory             |
| `compression: factory: ...` | `org.radarbase.output.compression.CompressionFactory` | Factory class to use for data compression. | CompressionFactory        |

The respective `<type>: properties: {}` configuration parameters can be used to provide custom configuration of the factory. This configuration will be passed to the `Plugin#init(Map<String, String>)` method.
